# Contribution Policies

This file is intended to clarify most of the file structure and dependencies in the repo files to produce a super awesome website. The most important rules of contribution are:

1. Always commit *major, and only major,* changes to the files.
1. Use branches if you are going to produce major changes.
1. Never commit without a descriptive message.
1. Don't be afraid to discuss problems using the issues page on GitHub.

The repo is divided onto the following categories:

1. Config file.
1. Gemfiles.
1. Format files.
1. Content Files.
1. Building Files.
1. Image files.
1. Community files.

## Config File

This file is the one in which global variables for automated site generation are defined. The point is that this constitutes a namespace of *place holders* on styling and building files. You may define a global variable for the website here, but please document carefully what the variable represents, and where is it expected to be used.

## Gemfiles

These files tell Jekyll which tools to use to build the website. Modification of them is only advised if you intend to customize Jekyll styling. In that case, you must create a separate branch to commit changes, and merge once they are well tested.

## Format Files

Format files are those that define the layout, the structure and the style of the webpage. These are located on ```_layouts```, ```_includes```, ```_sass``` folders.

## Layout files

These must be contained inside ```_layout``` folder. These define the basic layout of content in posts (```posts.html```), home pages (```home.html```, ```home-CrashCourse.html```,```home-Projects.html```), other pages (```page.html```) and a default layout (```default.html```). These files are automatically generated by Jekyll. However, they me modified to custom the default minima theme. As always, make those changes on a separate branch from main.

**IMPORTANT:** The files ```home-CrashCourse.html```, ```home-Projects.html``` contain the basic layout of the main pages concerning the Crash Course and Project posts. These should not be deleted unless those categories are deemed obsolete.

## Structure files

These must be located inside ```_include``` folder. They contain templates for the construction of headers, footers, and other elements of the website. Modification is only advised if a customization of the style is intended. As always, changes are to be performed on a separate branch, and then merged to main.

## Style files

These are located inside ```_sass``` folder. They define thins like font properties, background color and such. Edition of those properties must be carried out inside ```minima.scss```. Always test changes before submitting on main branch, in a different branch.

## Content files

These corresponds to *pages* and *posts*.

### Categorized posts

At his stage, posts are to be categorized as ```Projects``` or ```CrashCourse```. Folders under those names contain the hierarchy

```
├── _posts
|  └── YY-MM-DD-post1.markdown
|  └── YY-MM-DD-post2.markdown
├── assets
|  └── images
├── index.markdown

```

The actual posts are to be categorized before hand by the contributor, and stored on the subfolder ```_posts``` that correspond. Any image included in a post, should be stored in PNG format (no other format is valid) in ```/assetsImages```, *under the corresponding category folder*. Any other media should be stored in a subfolder inside ```assets```. The main page associated to either Projects or Crash Course is stored on ```index.markdown```. Edition of this file implies edition of the pages that are linked at the top menu.

**NOTE:** There is a ```404.html``` file that contains the default page when the server is unable to find the content on the repo. This can be personalized, but is scarcely necessary.

### Posts

This are simple blog posts. They are to be stored on the folder ```_posts```. The main rule for posting is to include the date YY-MM-DD in the name of the file, since this is a requirement of Jekyll. Any post must be categorized as Crash Course or Project, and identified as such.

### Menu Pages

These correspond to the home page (```./index.markdown```), Crash Course page (CrashCourse/index.html), Projects page (```Projects/index.markdown```) and about page (```./about.markdown```).

All content pages must include a YML header that establish at least a proper layout, a title, a date (for posts only) and a category (for posts and main pages).

**IMPORTANT:** The official language of the website is *Spanish*. Do not publish any content on another language. Exceptions are code reproductions. However, internal files, like HTML, CSS or similar, should be properly commented in *English*.

## Building Files

These are html files on ```_site``` folder. They **should not be modified**. These files are generated automatically by Jekyll, and thus their integrity is crucial for the site working correctly.

## Image files

All images *of the site* are expected to be stored in a common folder ```images``` at the root. They should be given a descriptive name. The only accepted format of images is PNG. Exception are post images, that should be included in the corresponding ```assets/images``` folder.

Images of the site are those that appear on the *about* and *home* pages. The others should be stored according to the post in which they are presented.

## Community files

These are guidelines for contribution, use of content and description of the repo. The files

* ```CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md```
* ```LICENSE```

Should be read carefully, but no modified. The files

* ```README.md```
* ```CONTRIBUTING```

May be modified according to the evolution of the website.

---

Thanks for contributing to QC-FEM's site. Make sure to understand all the guidelines stated on this document before making a pull request.
